.\" section 8 man page for chkentry_test.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH chkentry_test.sh 8 "08 November 2022" "chkentry_test.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
chkentry_test.sh \- test chkentry on good and bad auth.json and info.json files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchkentry_test.sh\fP [\-h] [\-V] [\-v level] [\-D dbg_level] [\-J level] [\-q] [\-c chkentry] [\-d json_tree]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchkentry_test.sh\fP tests each file in the \fItest_JSON/auth.json\fP and \fItest_JSON/info.json\fP subdirectories
It uses \fBfind(1)\fP to look under the JSON tree for good and bad files that must pass or fail respectively.
The files that must pass are in the subdirectory called \fIgood\fP and the files that must fail are in the subdirectory called \fIbad\fP.
It keeps a log of all the tests in \fIchkentry_test.log\fP for later inspection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Print version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Show version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set verbosity level to \fIlevel\fP.
.TP
\fB\-D \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set debug level to \fIlevel\fP.
.TP
\fB\-J \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set JSON verbosity level to \fIlevel\fP.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP
Set quiet mode.
This will be passed to the JSON parser.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIchkentry\fP\fP
Set path to chkentry to \fIchkentry\fP.
.TP
\fB\-d \fIjson_tree\fP\fP
Set json tree to look for good and bad files under to \fIjson_tree\fP.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all tests passed
.TQ
1
all JSON files were valid JSON, however some chkentry semantic tests failed
.TQ
2
help mode exit
.TQ
3
invalid command line
.TQ
4
missing or non-executable chkentry
.TQ
5
missing or non-readable json_tree directory or subdirectory
.TQ
6
some files were invalid JSON, chkentry correctly tested all other files
.TQ
7
some files were invalid JSON, some chkentry tests failed
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH FILES
\fIchkentry_test.log\fP
.RS
The log file kept by \fBchkentry_test.sh\fP.
It will be removed prior to each time the script is run to keep the state of the file consistent with the run.
.RE
\fItest_JSON\fP
.RS
The default JSON tree with good and bad subdirectories for files that must pass and fail, respectively.
.RE
.SH NOTES
The JSON parser \fBjparse(1)\fP and \fBchkentry(1)\fP were co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCCMOCK, IOCCC28 and beyond.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
\fI\<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\>\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchkentry(1)\fP
