.\" section 8 man page for ioccc_test.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH ioccc_test.sh 8 "04 November 2022" "ioccc_test" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
ioccc_test.sh \- test suite for IOCCC toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBioccc_test.sh\fP [\-h] [\-v level] [\-J json_level] [\-V] [\-Z topdir]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBioccc_test.sh\fP tests every module of the IOCCC toolkit.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.PP
\fB\-v\fP
Set verbosity level (def: 0).
.PP
\fB\-J\fP
Set JSON verbosity level.
.PP
\fB\-V\fP
Print version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fP \fItopdir\fP
Declare the top level directory of this repository.
The \fBtopdir\fP directory must contain the source file \fImkiocccentry.c\fP.
By default, the source file \fImkiocccentry.c\fP is searched for in the current directory,
and then the parent of current directory.
.sp 1
If \fB\-Z\fP \fItopdir\fP is used on the command line, then the source file \fImkiocccentry.c\fP need not exist
in the \fBtopdir\fP directory.
If \fB\-Z\fP \fItopdir\fP is not used on the command line, and the source file \fImkiocccentry.c\fP
is not found in the current directory not the parent of current directory,
then this command exits as if there was a command line error.
.sp 1
Once the \fBtopdir\fP directory is established,
this command moves to that directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all tests are OK
.TQ
1
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
2
command line usage error
.TQ
3\-19
something not found, not a file, or not executable
.TQ
>=20
some test failed
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBiocccsize_test(1)\fP, \fBdbg(3)\fP, \fBtxzchk(1)\fP.
