.\" section 1 man page for jparse
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH jparse 1 "06 November 2022" "jparse" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
jparse \- IOCCC JSON parser
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjparse\fP [\-h] [\-v level] [\-J level] [\-q] [\-V] [\-s] arg
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjparse\fP will parse a block of JSON text either from a file (\fB\-\fP means \fBstdin\fP) or a string passed to the program via the \fB\-s\fP option.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set verbosity level to level.
.TP
\fB\-J \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set JSON verbosity level to level.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP
Suppresses some of the output (def: not quiet).
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Show version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Parse argument as a string.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
\fB0\fP for success; different non\-zero values for error conditions.
.SH NOTES
.PP
This JSON parser was written as a collaboration between Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll, one of the IOCCC Judges, to support \fBIOCCCMOCK\fP, \fBIOCCC28\fP and beyond.
.PP
For more detailed history that goes beyond this humble man page we recommend you check \fBjparse(1)\fP, \fBchkentry(1)\fP, \fICHANGES.md\fP, \fIREADME.md\fP, the GitHub git log as well as reading the source code (or not :\-) ).
Understand that by source we refer to the \fIjparse.l\fP and \fIjparse.y\fP files: we do NOT recommend you read the generated code!
This is because doing so is likely to give you nightmares and cause other horrible symptoms.
See the apology at the top of the generated files or look directly at \fIsorry.tm.ca.h\fP instead.
.PP
We don't recommend you check the GitHub issue page! :\-)
This is because it's incredibly long with a lot of OT things and would take even the fastest readers a very long time to read. :\-(
.PP
.SH BUGS
.PP
Although error reporting does have locations it is only line numbers and columns.
Additionally the column can be misleading because of characters that take up more than one column but are counted as just one (tabs for example).
File names are not shown yet and it's undecided whether this will be added.
.PP
It's not fully re-entrant and we've not decided if we will make it re-entrant.
That's to be determined at a later date.
Well the parser is but the scanner is not and since they're so connected it makes jparse not re-entrant.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
Parse the JSON string \fB{ "test_mode" : false }\fP:
.RS
\fB
 ./jparse \-s '{ "test_mode" : false }'\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.nf
Parse input from \fBstdin\fP (send \fBEOF\fP, usually ctrl\-d or \fB^D\fP, to parse):
.RS
\fB
 ./jparse \-
 []
 ^D\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.nf
Parse just a negative number:
.RS
\fB
 ./jparse \-s \-5\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.nf
Parse .info.json file:
.RS
\fB
 ./jparse .info.json\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.nf
Run the \fBjparse_test.sh\fP script using the default \fIjson_teststr.txt\fP file with verbosity set at 5:
.RS
\fB
 ./jparse_test.sh \-v 5\fP
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBjparse(1)\fP, \fBmkiocccentry(1)\fP, \fBjstrencode(1)\fP, \fBjstrdecode(1)\fP, \fBchkentry(1)\fP, \fBflex(1)\fP and \fBbison(1)\fP.
