.\" section 8 man page for jsemcgen.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH jsemcgen.sh 8 "27 November 2022" "jsemcgen.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
jsemcgen.sh \- generate JSON semantics table via the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjsemcgen.sh\fP [\-h] [\-v level] [\-J level] [\-q] [\-V] [\-s] [\-I] [\-N name] [\-D def_func] [\-P prefix] [\-1 func] [\-S func] [\-B func] [\-0 func] [\-M func] [\-O func] [\-A func] [\-U func] [\-j jsemtblgen] [\-p patch_tool] file.json head patch tail out
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is a wrapper to the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP tool. Along with \fBall_ref(8)\fP these tools, in the case of the IOCCC, create the JSON semantics tables for the \fBchkentry(1)\fP tool.
As the \fBchkentry(1)\fP tool is a vitally important part of the IOCCC judging process these tools are also vital in running the IOCCC but at a lower level.
.PP
The \fIfile.json\fP file is expected to be a valid JSON file used to generate the initial JSON semantics table.
The \fIhead\fP file is a file add to the beginning of the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP output (before patched \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP output).
The \fIpatch\fP file is a patch file to apply to the output of \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP with \fIhead\fP and \fItail\fP.
The \fItail\fP file is a file to add to the end of the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP output (after patching the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP output).
The \fIout\fP argument is the \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP output with possible head, tail and patch applied.
If you do not wish to specify \fIhead\fP, \fIpatch\fP or \fItail\fP specify \fI.\fP instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set verbosity level to level.
.TP
\fB\-J \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set JSON verbosity level.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP
Set quiet mode.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Show version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Specify that arg is a string to be processed rather than a file.
.TP
\fB\-I\fP
Output as a C header file.
.TP
\fB\-N \fIname\fP\fP
Set name of the semantics table.
.TP
\fB\-D \fIdef_func\fP\fP
Validate with \fIdef_func()\fP unless overridden by another flag.
.TP
\fB\-P \fIprefix\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_MEMBER\fP JSON nodes with prefix_name() (def: do not)
.RS
Note that the name is based on the \fBJTYPE_MEMBER\fP JSON decoded name string.
Underscore (_) replaces any name chars that are not valid in a C function name.
\fB\-P\fP overrides any use of \fB\-M\fP.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-1 \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_NUMBER\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-S \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_STRING\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-B \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_BOOL\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-0 \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_NULL\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-M \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_MEMBER\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-O \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_OBJECT\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-A \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate \fBJTYPE_ARRAY\fP JSON nodes with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\-U \fIfunc\fP\fP
Validate nodes with unknown types with \fIfunc()\fP.
.TP
\fB\--j \fIjsemtblgen\fP\fP
Set path to \fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP.
.RS
This option is only used in this script.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-p \fIpatch_tool\fP\fP
Set path to the patch program.
.RS
This option is only used in this script.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
JSON is valid.
.TQ
1
JSON is invalid.
.TQ
2
\fB\-h\fP or \fB\-V\fP used and help string or version string printed.
.TQ
3
Command line error.
.TQ
4
\fBjsemtblgen\fP or \fBpatch_tool\fP is not an executable.
.TQ
5
One or more of the files \fIfile.json\fP, \fIhead\fP, \fIpatch\fP, and/or \fItail\fP is or are not a readable file.
.TQ
6
\fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP failed.
.TQ
>= 10
Internal error.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The JSON parser \fBjparse\fP was co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCCMOCK, IOCCC28 and beyond.
.PP
This tool is needed in order to generate the JSON semantics table for \fBchkentry(1)\fP.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
\fI\<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\>\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBjsemtblgen(8)\fP, \fBchkentry(1)\fP, \fBall_ref(8)\fP
