.\" section 8 man page for run_usage.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH run_usage.sh 8 "08 November 2022" "run_usage.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
run_usage \- run \-h on a tool to extract usage information to help with checking man page \fBSYNOPSIS\fP \- tool usage consistency
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrun_usage.sh\fP [\-h] [\-V] [\-v level] [\-a awk] [\-c cut] [\-g grep] [\-s sed] [\-m section] [\-M man_file] [\-D man_dir] tool
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This script does a best guess at what the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP should be for the supplied tool with certain limitations (see both \fBNOTES\fP and \fBBUGS\fP).
If the man page exists it attempts to, based on the \fB\-h\fP option of the tool, create the correct regexp for the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP and then uses \fBgrep\fP to check for it in the man page.
.PP
If the man page does not exist or is not a regular file or is not readable it is an error but a helpful note is given of what the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP might look like.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set verbosity level.
.TP
\fB\-a \fIawk\fP\fP
Set path to awk tool.
.TP
\fB\-c \fIcut\fP\fP
Set path to cut tool.
.TP
\fB\-g \fIgrep\fP\fP
Set path to grep tool.
.TP
\fB\-s \fIsed\fP\fP
Set path to sed tool.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Show version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-m \fIsection\fP\fP
Specify a different man page section.
Default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-M \fIman_file\fP\fP
Specify the man page filename.
This is useful when the name of the tool does not match what the man page should be (for example \fBrun_usage.sh\fP has \fBrun_usage.1\fP and not \fBrun_usage.sh.1\fP).
.TP
\fB\-D \fIman_dir\fP\fP
Specify directory where man pages are to be found.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all okay
.TQ
1
help string printed
.TQ
2
tool missing or command used missing
.TQ
3
man page missing
.TQ
4
command line usage error
.TQ
5
missing or inconsistent synopsis
.TQ
>=42
some internal error occurred
.SH NOTES
.PP
It has a \fBvery fixed\fP idea of what formatting is correct.
As this can vary we don't try figuring it out.
Fortunately the formatting of the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP in the man pages in the repo actually matches the script's idea of correct.
In particular the tool was even used to generate the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP of this man page.
However according to standards it is actually not quite correct and I (Cody) will at the end fix the SYNOPSIS of each man page to account for this.
.PP
If there's more than one usage string then the script only can detect the number of usage strings matched in the man page.
In particular if at least one of the lines matches and there are the correct number of usages it will not report a problem because it checks for the number of matches via \fBgrep \-c\fP and since it has a correct match it assumes that it's correct.
This is a necessary hack because not all greps allow for line crossing and even if they did it could be broken by the order in the file (or tool).
To fix this would complicate the script more and it's not worth it because we still will visually inspect the man pages.
.PP
In the case there's a mismatch all usages will be shown to the user.
This is not really a bug but it's worth pointing out because seeing two lines does not mean that both need to be added.
Also as noted it could be that the output is not even correct; it's expected that when editing the man page one is also visually inspecting (including running man on it) everything but as long as everything stays the way it is now it should work.
.PP
At some point when we make the SYNOPSIS show option arguments in italic the script will fail to validate man pages but it can still be used in part because it gives the formatting for the rest of the SYNOPSIS.
There are macros for SYNOPSIS sections but since these are not always available we don't use them (we could include them in each man page but this seems unnecessary especially as these macros are more complicated anyway).
.SH BUGS
.PP
It's not perfect. In particular:
.PP
It's not perfect.
See above line and above \fBNOTES\fP if this is not clear!
.PP
It requires a \fB\-h\fP option for the tool in question and that this option will prefix each syntax with \fBusage:\fP.
.PP
It does not have a quiet mode so that it only prints out what the format might be for \fBSYNOPSIS\fP.
It does however not print anything if everything seems okay.
This is a feature not a bug.
.PP
There are other limitations as well!
It's not meant to be perfect and it's not meant to replace the need for editing the man page manually.
It can help determine that everything is correct assuming the usage string in the tool is correct (prefixed with \fBusage:\fP) and there's no silliness in the man page like the same usage more than once.
Unfortunately changing the script so that it checks for each usage individually is not worth the effort.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
Determine if the \fBSYNOPSIS\fP in this file is correct (according to the script) based on the usage message of \fBrun_usage.sh\fP:
.RS
\fB
 ./run_usage.sh \-M run_usage.1 run_usage.sh\fP
.fi
.RE
