.\" section 8 man page for verge
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH verge 8 "29 October 2022" "verge" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
verge \- determine if first version >= second version
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBverge\fP [\-h] [\-v level] [\-V] major.minor.patch\-1 major.minor.patch\-2
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBverge\fP (short for \fBversion greater than or equal\fP) compares the two versions specified, determining if they're equal or if one is >= the other.
.PP
This program requires two arguments but accepts several options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIlevel\fP\fP
Set verbosity level.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Show version and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
First version >= second version
.TQ
1
First version < second version
.TQ
2
One or more invalid version strings
.TQ
3
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
4
Command line error
.TQ
>= 10
Internal error
.SH NOTES
This tool is used in the \fBrun_flex.sh\fP and \fBrun_bison.sh\fP scripts to determine if the locally installed flex and bison tools are recent enough to generate the JSON parser from the \fBjparse.l\fP and \fBjparse.y\fP files.
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you have an issue with the tool you can report it at
.br
\fI\<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\>\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
Determine if first version, \fB1.1.3\fP, is > the second version, \fB1.1.4\fP:
.RS
\fB
 ./verge 1.1.3 1.1.4
 [[ $? \-eq 0 ]] && echo 'first version, 1.1.3, is >= second version, 1.1.4'\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The above will not show any output as the exit status of the command will not be 0.
.PP
.nf
Determine if the first version, \fB1.1.3\fP, is < the second version, \fB1.1.4\fP:
.RS
\fB
 ./verge 1.1.3 1.1.4
 [[ $? \-eq 1 ]] && echo 'first version, 1.1.3, is < second version, 1.1.4'\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
The above will show the string \fBfirst version, 1.1.3, is < second version, 1.1.4\fP as the version 1.1.3 is < 1.1.4.
