.\" section 8 man page for jnum_gen
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH jnum_gen 8 "26 January 2023" "jnum_gen" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B jnum_gen
\- generate JSON number string conversion test data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jnum_gen
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjnum_gen\fP takes the data in the file and generates JSON number string conversion test data.
This is used by the \fBjnum_chk(8)\fP tool to verify that JSON number string conversions work as expected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version string and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
Set quiet mode.
This will affect the JSON parser.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all is OK
.TQ
1
filename does not exist or is not a readable file
.TQ
2
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH NOTES
.PP
The JSON parser \fBjparse\fP was co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCCMOCK, IOCCC28 and beyond.
.PP
This tool is needed in order to generate the test source file for the \fBjnum_chk(8)\fP tool which is needed to verify that the JSON number string conversion routines work as expected.
The Makefile rule \fBrebuild_jnum_test\fP will create the file \fIjnum_test.c\fP via this tool.
The tool \fBjnum_chk(8)\fP in turn will use the data in the \fIjnum_test.c\fP file to verify that the conversions work as expected.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
\fI\<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\>\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBjnum_chk(8)\fP and \fBjparse(1)\fP
