.\" section 8 man page for pr_jparse_test
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the jparse
.\" repo on 12 October 2024.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH pr_jparse_test 8 "12 October 2024" "pr_jparse_test" "jparse tools"
.SH NAME
.B pr_jparse_test
\- tool to test print function calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pr_jparse_test
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pr_jparse_test
runs a number of tests on print function calls such as:
.BR printf (3),
.BR fprintf (3),
.BR dprintf (3),
.BR vprintf (3),
.BR vfprintf (3)
and
.BR vdprintf (3).
It also runs various tests on print\-like functions from our library, such as:
.BR fprint (),
.BR fprstr (),
.BR print (),
.BR prstr (),
.BR para (),
.BR fpara (),
.BR fpr ()
and
.BR vfpr (),
which are used internally.
.PP
This tool was created because in some systems we ran into problems with certain functionality.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all is OK
.TQ
1
some unexpected I/O error was detected
.TQ
2
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH NOTES
.PP
The JSON parser
.B jparse
was co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCCMOCK, IOCCC28 and beyond.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
.IR \<https://github.com/xexyl/jparse/issues\> .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR run_jparse_tests (8),
.BR jparse_test (8)
