.\" section 1 man page for run_flex.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH run_flex.sh 8 "30 January 2023" "run_flex.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B run_flex.sh
\- run
.BR flex (1)
to generate C code from a
.I *.l
file or use backup files if error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run_flex.sh
.RB [\| \-h \| ]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-o \|]
.RB [\| \-f
.IR flex \|]
.RB [\| \-g
.IR verge \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR prefix \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR sorry.h \|]
.RB [\| \-S]
.RB [\| \-F
.IR dir \|]
.RB [\| \-D
.IR dir \|]
.B \-\-
.RB [\|
.RI flex_flags \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B run_flex.sh
attempts to find a recent enough version of
.BR flex (1)
(minimum version defined in
.I run_flex.sh\c
\&) and use it to generate code from the
.I prefix.l
file.
The default prefix is
.I jparse
but this script can be used for other scanners as well.
If a recent enough version is not found or
.BR flex (1)
encounters an error (syntax error or anything else) and the
.B \-o
option is not specified, it attempts to use the backup files
.I prefix.ref.c
and
.IR prefix.lex.ref.h .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-o
Do
.B NOT
use backup files.
If
.BR flex (1)
cannot be used or fails to generate the files the script will fail.
.TP
.BI \-f\  flex
Set
.BR flex (1)
basename to
.IR flex .
.TP
.BI \-g\  verge
Set path to the
.BR verge (1)
tool to
.IR verge .
This is used to determine if the
.BR flex (1)
tool is recent enough.
.TP
.BI \-p\  prefix
Set prefix of files to use to
.IR prefix .
The
.BR flex (1)
input file will be
.IR prefix.l .
If the
.B \-o
option was not used and
.BR flex (1)
cannot be used or fails then the backup files
.I prefix.ref.c
and
.I prefix.lex.ref.h
will be used.
.TP
.BI \-s\  sorry.h
Set path of file to prepend to the C output to
.IR sorry.h .
.TP
.B \-S
Suppress prepending apology to generated C output files.
.TP
.BI \-F\  flex_dir
Add directory
.I flex_dir
to list to search for
.BR flex (1).
.B \-F
can be used more than once.
If not used the script looks at
.BR $PATH .
.TP
.BI \-D\  dir
Set directory to find the
.BR flex (1)
source file.
Default is
.I .
(dot).
.PP
The
.I flex_flags
are any optional flags to give to
.BR flex (1)
before the prefix.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
.BR flex (1)
output files formed or backup files used instead
.TQ
1
.BR flex (1)
not found or too old and
.B \-o
used
.TQ
2
good
.BR flex (1)
found and ran but failed to form proper output files
.TQ
3
.BR flex (1)
input file missing or not readable: backup files had to be used
.TQ
4
backup files missing or are not readable
.TQ
5
failed to use backup files to form the
.BR flex (1)
C output files
.TQ
6
.I sorry.h
file missing/not readable or
.B verge
missing/not executable
.TQ
.TQ
7
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
8
command line usage error
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH NOTES
.PP
The
.B \-o
option is mainly for maintainers of the
.B jparse
scanner and parser but it can be used to test if you have a recent enough version of
.BR flex (1).
The idea behind it is if
.BR flex (1)
fails it might indicate a syntax error which the authors of
.B jparse
would need to fix.
.PP
Beware that some
.BR make (1)
implementations have a default rule for
.I *.l
files so that if one were to in this repo do:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 touch foo.l
 make
.ft R
.RE
.sp
the file
.I foo.c
would be overwritten and cause a compilation error.
This appears to be because foo is actually referenced in the Makefile as a target.
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you have any issues with the tool you can open an issue at
.br
.IR \<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\> .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run
.B run_flex.sh
with default options, which should attempt to run
.BR flex (1)
on the
.I jparse.l
file:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./run_flex.sh
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run
.B run_flex.sh
but specify that the backup files are not to be used in case a recent enough version of
.BR flex (1)
cannot be found or fails for some reason:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./run_flex.sh \-o
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Try and run
.BR flex (1)
on the file
.I foobar.l
and don't use the backup files:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./run_flex.sh \-o \-p foobar
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Try and run
.BR flex (1)
on the file
.I foobar.l
with lex instead of
.BR flex (1)
and don't use the backup files:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./run_flex.sh \-o \-p foobar \-f lex
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR run_bison (1),
.BR jparse (1)
