.\" section 8 man page for run_jparse_tests.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson 12 October
.\" 2024 for the jparse repo.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH run_jparse_tests.sh 8 "12 October 2024" "run_jparse_tests.sh" "jparse tools"
.SH NAME
.B run_jparse_tests.sh
\- test jparse on one or more files with one or more one\-line JSON blobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run_jparse_tests.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-D
.IR dbg_level \|]
.RB [\| \-J
.IR json_level \|]
.RB [\| \-j
.IR jparse \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR pr_jparse_test \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR jnum_chk \|]
.RB [\| \-Z
.IR topdir \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B run_jparse_tests.sh
is the driver of the
.BR jparse (1)
test suite
to make sure everything is working.
It is only meant to be run from the repo directory itself; in other words, it is not installed.
.PP
The tools used are
.BR jparse_test.sh (8),
.BR pr_jparse_test (8),
and
.BR jnum_chk(8).
.PP
The script keeps a log of all the tests in
.BR test_jparse.log
for later inspection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-D\  level
Set debug level for
.B jparse_test.sh
to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-J\  level
Set JSON verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-j\  jparse
Set path to the JSON parser jparse tool
.IR jparse .
.TP
.BI \-p\  pr_jparse_test
Set path to the
.I pr_jparse_test
tool
.TP
.BI \-c\  jnum_chk
Set path to the
.I jnum_chk
tool
.TP
.BI \-Z\  topdir
Set the top directory (where the jparse binary and the test_jparse subdirectory reside) in order for the tests to work right, in specific situations.
If not specified, the script tries to determine the top level directory by first checking the current working directory for the file
.B jparse.c
and if this fails by checking for the file
.B ../jparse.c
and finally if that fails by checking for the file
.BR ../../jparse.c .
This allows the jparse test suite to properly run in the presumably rare case where one has a copy of the jparse repo in a subdirectory of their project.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all tests are OK
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
invalid command line
.TQ
4
could not create a writable log file
.TQ
5
a file or tool not found, not the right type or not executable/readable
.TQ
6
missing directory or directories
.TQ
>=20
some test failed
.SH NOTES
The JSON parser
.B jparse
was co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCCMOCK, IOCCC28 and beyond.
.SH BUGS
.PP
If a directory structure is not correct, one or more of the scripts called by this script can fail.
This might happen if this is not run from the repository directory.
.PP
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
.IR \<https://github.com/xexyl/jparse/issues\> .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run test suite from top level (repo root) directory:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 make test
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the test script from the top level (repo root) directory manually:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./test_jparse/run_jparse_tests.sh
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run test suite from top level (repo root) directory with verbosity level 3:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 make VERBOSITY=3 test
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jparse (1),
.BR jparse_test (8)
.BR jnum_chk (8)
