.\" section 8 man page for chksubmit_test.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH chksubmit_test.sh 8 "28 August 2025" "chksubmit_test.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B chksubmit_test.sh
\- test chkentry on good and bad submission directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chksubmit_test.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-D
.IR dbg_level \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR chksubmit \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR chkentry \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR json_tree \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chksubmit_test.sh
tests each file in the
.I test_JSON/workdir/good
and
.I test_JSON/workdir/bad
subdirectories
It uses
.BR find (1)
to look under the good and bad submission directories that must pass or fail respectively.
The files that must pass are in the subdirectory called
.I good
and the files that must fail are in the subdirectory called
.IR bad .
It keeps a log of all the tests in
.I chksubmit_test.log
for later inspection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-D\  level
Set debug level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-q
Set quiet mode.
This will affect the JSON parser as well.
.TP
.BI \-c\  chksubmit
Set path to chksubmit to
.IR chksubmit .
.TP
.BI \-C\  chkentry
Set path to chkentry to
.IR chkentry .
.TP
.BI \-d\  json_tree
Set json tree to look for good and bad files under to
.IR json_tree ,
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
all JSON files were valid JSON; however some chkentry semantic tests failed
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
invalid command line
.TQ
4
missing or non-executable chkentry
.TQ
5
missing or unreadable json_tree directory or subdirectory
.TQ
6
some files were invalid JSON; chkentry correctly tested all other files
.TQ
7
some files were invalid JSON and some chkentry tests failed
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH FILES
.I chksubmit_test.log
.RS
The log file kept by
.BR chksubmit_test.sh .
It will be removed prior to each time the script is run to keep the state of the file consistent with the run.
.RE
.I test_JSON
.RS
The default JSON tree with good and bad subdirectories for files that must pass and fail, respectively.
.RE
.SH NOTES
The JSON parser
.BR jparse (1),
.BR chkentry (1)
and,
.BR chksubmit (1)
were co\-developed by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCC28 and beyond.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
You can open an issue at:
.sp
.RS 4
.ft B
https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chkentry (1),
.BR chksubmit (1)
