.\" section 8 man page for ioccc_test.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2023.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH ioccc_test.sh 8 "11 February 2025" "ioccc_test.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B ioccc_test.sh
\- perform the complete suite of tests for the mkiocccentry repo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ioccc_test.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-J
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR tar \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR make \|]
.RB [\| \-Z
.IR topdir \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ioccc_test.sh
runs the entire test suite for the
.BR
mkiocccentry
toolkit.
Although this is mostly used by repo maintainers it is also run via the
.BR bug_report.sh (1)
script through
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make test
.ft R
.RE
.sp
to help report bugs or other problems.
If your default
.BR make (1)
tool path is not a GNU make program you will have to instead do:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make MAKE=/path/to/gnumake test
.fr R
.RE
.sp
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-J\  level
Set JSON verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-t\  tar
Set
.B tar
path to
.IR tar .
The
.BR tar (1)
command must support the
.B \-J
option and the
.B v7
format.
.TP
.BI \-m\  make
Set
.B make
path to
.IR make .
The
.BR make (1)
command must be GNU Make compatible.
.TP
.BI \-Z\  topdir
Declare the top level directory of this repository.
The
.B topdir
directory must contain the source file
.IR mkiocccentry.c .
By default, the source file
.I mkiocccentry.c
is searched for in the current directory and then the parent of current directory.
.sp 1
If
.BI \-Z\  topdir
is used on the command line, then the source file
.I mkiocccentry.c
need not exist in the
.B topdir
directory.
If
.BI \-Z\   topdir
is not used on the command line, and the source file
.I mkiocccentry.c
is not found in the current directory or the parent of current directory, then this command exits as if there was a command line error.
.sp 1
Once the
.B topdir
directory is established, this command moves to that directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
2
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error
.TQ
4
could not create a writable log file
.TQ
5
something not found, not the right file type, or not executable
.TQ
>=20
some test failed
.SH FILES
.I test_ioccc.log
.RS
The log file kept by
.BR ioccc_test.sh .
It will be removed prior to each time the script is run to keep the state of the file consistent with the run.
.RE
.SH NOTES
Although one can certainly run this script directly it is better to run it via
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 make clobber all test
.ft R
.RE
.sp
from the main directory.
You can also run the test suite of specific directories by running
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make clobber all test
.ft R
.RE
.sp
from those directories to run just the test suite of said directories.
This is much less useful, however.
For a more exhaustive test you should try running
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make prep
.ft R
.RE
.sp
from the main directory.
This will also run
.BR bug_report.sh (1)
(with much less output) and, as long as no issues are detected, it will remove the bug report log file.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
It can be found at
.br
.IR \<https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues\> .
It would be helpful if you run
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make bug_report
.ft R
.RE
.sp
from the main repo when reporting the issue.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run the test suite the preferred way:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make clobber all test
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the test script directly:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make clobber all && ./test_ioccc/ioccc_test.sh
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the test suite the preferred way with a different
.BR make (1):
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make MAKE=/path/to/gnumake clobber all test
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the test script directly with a different
.BR make (1)
path:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make clobber all && ./test_ioccc/ioccc_test.sh -m /path/to/gnumake
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bug_report.sh (1)
