.\" section 8 man page for mkiocccentry_slots.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Landon Curt Noll for the IOCCC
.\" in 2025.
.\"
.\" "Be careful what you measure, because you are likely to get it."
.\"				    -- Richard Feynman to Landon Curt Noll
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH mkiocccentry_slots.sh 8 "29 August 2025" "mkiocccentry_slots.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B mkiocccentry_slots.sh
\- test chkentry on good and bad submission directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkiocccentry_slots.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-g
.IR good_tree \|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR mkiocccentry \|]
.RB [\| \-Z
.IR repo_topdir \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkiocccentry_slots.sh
runs
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
against slot data found under
.I good_tree.
.PP
This tool looks for
.B UUID-SLOT_NUM
information, where
.B UUID
is a version 4 UUID of the form:
.sp
.RS
xxxxxxxx-xxxx-4xxx-Nxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
.RE
.sp
where
.I x
is a hex character,
.I 4
is the UUID version, and
.I N
ne of 8, 9, a, or b.
.PP
A
.I SLOT_NUM
is an IOCCC slot number, currently a single decimal digit.
.PP
The following in an example of a
.BR UUID-SLOT_NUM :
.sp
.RS
12345678-1234-4321-abcd-1234567890ab-6
.RE
.sp
.PP
Each
.B UUID-SLOT_NUM
must have both an answers file:
.BR good_tree/answers/UUID-SLOT_NUM ,
and a code directory:
.BR good_tree/topdir/UUID-SLOT_NUM .
.PP
When
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
successfully processes a slat, a submission tarball is formed:
.BR good_tree/workdir/UUID-SLOT_NUM.txz ,
and a submission tree directory:
.BR good_tree/workdir/UUID-SLOT_NUM/ .
.PP
If
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
successfully processes all slots, then
.B mkiocccentry_slots.sh
will exit 0, otherwise it will exit non-zero.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-M\  mkiocccentry
Set path to mkiocccentry to
.IR mkiocccentry .
By default, the path:
.B ./mkiocccentry
(relative to repo_topdir) is used.
.TP
.BI \-g\  good_tree
Set path to the good slot tree.
By default, the path:
.B test_ioccc/slot/good
(relative to repo_topdir) is used.
.TP
.BI \-Z\  repo_topdir
Set the top level repo directory for the mkiocccentry toolkit.
By default, the current directory or the parent if the current directory is used.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
at least one test failed.
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
invalid command line
.TQ
4
missing slot information
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH FILES
Yes.  :-)
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the tool (not JSON itself! :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
You can open an issue at:
.sp
.RS 4
.ft B
https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkiocccentry (1),
.BR txzchk (1),
.BR chksubmit (1).
