.\" section 8 man page for prep
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2023.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH prep.sh 8 "30 January 2023" "prep.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B prep.sh
\- prepare for a release - actions for make prep and make release
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prep.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-e \|]
.RB [\| \-o \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR make \|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR Makefile \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR logfile \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prep.sh
runs a series of make actions to test the state of any changes prior to making a commit and pull request.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-e
Exit on first make action error.
.TP
.B \-o
Do not use backup files for flex or bison if either of those tools cannot be used.
Specifically if this option is used the make rule
.B parser\-o
is used instead of
.BR parser .
.TP
.BI \-m\  make
Specify path to
.BR make (1)
command.
.TP
.BI \-M\  Makefile
Path to the Makefile to use.
.TP
.BI \-l\  logfile
Write all details to log file
.I logfile
and write less information to stdout.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
2
command line error
.TQ
3
Makefile not readable file
.TQ
4
could not make writable log file
.TQ
9
internal error
.TQ
>= 10
some make action exited non-zero
.SH NOTES
.PP
There are two ways that this script should be invoked in order of preference:
.TP
.B make release
run the script with the
.B \-e
and
.B \-o
options.
.TQ
.B make prep
run the script without exiting on the first error and allowing flex or bison backup files
.PP
Although the
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make release
.ft R
.RE
.sp
should be used first it is okay to use
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make prep
.ft R
.RE
.sp
to get a summary of all issues to fix.
However the
.B make release
generally should pass before a commit (if one does not modify the jparse files then one can probably get away with not using
.B make release\c
\&).
.PP
This script is only needed for the repo maintainers prior to a commit and pull request.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run the script in a way that aborts on the first error including the inability to use
.B bison
or
.BR flex :
.sp
.RS
.ft B
make release
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the script in a more lenient way, specifying a log file to reduce output on stdout:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 make prep
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bug_report (1),
.BR iocccsize_test (8),
.BR mkiocccentry_test (8),
.BR jstr_test (8),
.BR jnum_chk (8),
.BR jparse_test (8),
.BR txzchk_test (8),
.BR chkentry_test (8)
