.\" section 8 man page for test_file_util
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2025.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH test_file_util 8 "04 September 2025" "test_file_util" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B test_file_util
\- test the file_util functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B test_file_util
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-J
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RI \| name
.I ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B test_file_util
runs a battery of tests to make sure the IOCCC util functions work okay.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-J\  level
Set JSON verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version string and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
Suppresses some of the output (def: loud :-) ).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all is OK
.TQ
1
reserved for past use :\-)
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
invalid command line, invalid option or option missing an argument
.TQ
>= 10
internal error
.SH NOTES
The JSON parser
.BR jparse (1),
.BR jparse (3)
and
.BR soup
were co\-developed/cooked by Cody Boone Ferguson and Landon Curt Noll (one of the IOCCC Judges) in support for IOCCC28 and beyond.
.SH BUGS
If you have a problem with the util functions (or soup :\-) ) you can report it at the GitHub issues page.
You can open an issue at:
.sp
.RS 4
.ft B
https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jparse (1),
.BR jparse (3)
