.\" section 1 man page for fnamchk
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH fnamchk 1 "19 February 2025" "fnamchk" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B fnamchk
\- IOCCC compressed tarball filename sanity check tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fnamchk
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.BR [\| \-q \|]
.BR [\| \-V \|]
.BR [\| \-E
.IR ext \|]
.BR [\| \-]
.BR [\| \-T \|]
.I filepath
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fnamchk
verifies that an IOCCC compressed tarball is properly named.
.PP
The program validates that the filename is correct, in the form of
.B submit.contest_ID\-entry_num.timestamp.ext
where
.B contest_ID
is either
.BR test
(in which case the
.B \-t
option must be specified; but see the
.B NOTES
section for an important warning about the use of this option)
or a valid UUID (see below),
.B entry_number
is an integer from
.B 0
through
.B MAX_SUBMIT_SLOT
(see
.IR soup/limit_ioccc.h )
inclusive,
.B timestamp
is the timestamp the tarball was formed (which, unless the
.B \-T
option is used, must be >= the minimum timestamp; see
.B MIN_TIMESTAMP
in
.IR soup/ioccc_limit.h
and the
.B NOTES
section below for an important warning about the use of this option).
.B ext
must be
.B txz
unless the user overrides this with the
.B \-E
option (see the
.B NOTES
section below for an important warning about the use of this option).
.PP
More specifically, the tarball filename, in order to be suitable for submission to the IOCCC,
.BR MUST :
.IP \(bu 4
Start with "\fBsubmit\fP".
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by "\fB.\fP".
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by a UUID string in the form of
.B xxxxxxxx\-xxxx\-4xxx\-Nxxx\-xxxxxxxxxxxx
where
.B x
is a hexadecimal digit in the range
.B [0\-9a\-f]
and
.B N
is one of
.BR 8 ,
.BR 9 ,
.BR a
or
.BR b ,
and which was registered to you as a contestant.
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by "\fB\-\fP".
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by a decimal entry number from 
.B 0
through 
.B MAX_SUBMIT_SLOT
(see
.IR soup/limit_ioccc.h )
inclusive.
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by "\fB.\fP".
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by a positive non\-zero 64\-bit decimal integer (that is >= the minimum timestamp).
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by "\fB.\fP".
.IP \(bu 4
Followed by "\fBtxz\fP".
.PP
NOTE: the quotes above should not be in the filename; they're there only to help distinguish the punctuation from the rest of the format.
.PP
.BR fnamchk (1)
is invoked by the
.BR txzchk (1)
tool which is called by
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
and it will also be directly executed by the judges during the judging process of the contests.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.
Silence msg(), warn(), warnp() if verbosity level is 0.
Default:
.BR loud :-) .
.TP
.BI \-E\  ext
Change extension to extension specified (without the dot!).
This is used for
.B TESTING
purposes only and using this option when verifying your tarball is correctly named puts you at a great risk of violating Rule 17!
.TP
.B \-t
If the filename does not start with the test mode filename format, issue an error.
In other words the filename has to start with
.I submit.test\-
or it's an error.
This is also used strictly for
.B TESTING
purposes and using this option when verifying your tarball is correctly named puts you at a great risk of violating Rule 17!
.TP
.B \-T
Ignore timestamp test result.
This is also used strictly for
.B TESTING
purposes and using this option when verifying your submission tarball is correctly named puts you at a great risk of violating Rule 17!
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
filename valid
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error
.TQ
4
"submit.test\-" separated token length invalid
.TQ
5
"submit.UUID\-" separated token length invalid
.TQ
>= 10
validation failed (see error message for details)
.SH NOTES
If there is an error in validation an appropriate error message is printed prior to exiting.
Otherwise the program will output the name of the required directory in the tarball (this is necessary for
.BR txzchk (1)).
.PP
If the filename starts with "\fBtest\-\fP" and the option
.B \-t
is not used, it is an error.
Otherwise the regular format is required, unless the
.B \-T
option is specified, in which case the timestamp check may fail (but nothing else may).
The option
.BI \-E\  ext
is
.B ONLY
valid for testing purposes and the judges will not use it.
The option
.BI \-t
is
.B ONLY
valid for testing purposes and the judges will not use it.
The option
.BI \-T
is
.B ONLY
valid for testing purposes and the judges will not use it.
Use of any of these option when verifying your submission tarball is properly named puts you at a great risk of violating Rule 17!
.PP
For the rules see:
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/rules.html\>.
.br
For the guidelines see:
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/guidelines.html\>.
.SH BUGS
.PP
More than 0 humans work on it! :)
.PP
If you have an issue with the tool you can open an issue at
.br
.IR <https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues> .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
For the examples below assume that the
.B MIN_TIMESTAMP
is
.BR (time_t)1662145368 .
.PP
Run the program on the filename
.I submit.test\-0.1562145368.txz
which will fail because the timestamp in the filename is less than the minimum timestamp:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk \-t submit.test\-0.1562145368.txz
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the program on the filename
.IR test.tar ,
which will fail because the name format is invalid:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk test.tar
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run the program on the filename
.I submit.test.0.1662145368.txz
with the option
.I \-t
which will pass because it is a test\-mode file and the timestamp is not less than the minimum:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk \-t submit.test\-0.1662145368.txz
.ft R
.RE
.PP
The above will print "\fBtest\-0\fP".
.PP
Run the program on the file
.I submit.test.0.1662145368.txt
with the option
.BR \-t ,
changing the extension to
.I txt
via the
.B \-E
option, which will pass because test mode is specified with a test filename, the extension matches the
.B \-E
option and the timestamp is correct:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk \-E txt \-t submit.test\-0.1662145368.txt
.ft R
.RE
.sp
The above will print "\fBtest\-0\fP".
.PP
Run the program on the file
.I submit.test.0.1662145368.txz
with the option
.BR \-t ,
to enable test mode and the option
.BI \-E\  txt
to change extension to
.BR txt ,
which will fail because the extension specified does not match the extension in the filename:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk \-E txt \-t submit.test\-0.1662145368.txz
.ft R
.RE
.sp
NOTE: it would have passed if the extension was correct because the timestamp in the filename is not less than the minimum timestamp.
.PP
Run the program on the file
.I submit.test.0.1662145368.txz
without specifying test\-mode:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 fnamchk submit.test\-0.1662145368.txz
.ft R
.RE
.sp
The above will fail because the
.BR \-t
option was not specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR txzchk (1),
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
