.\" section 1 man page for chksubmit
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2025.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH chksubmit 1 "28 August 2025" "chksubmit" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B chksubmit
\- check an IOCCC submission directory via
.B chkentry \-S
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chksubmit
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR chkentry \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.I submission_dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR chksubmit (1)
This tool checks if a IOCCC submission directory will satisfy
most of the important validation checks.
The IOCCC submission directory is specified by
.B submission_dir
argument.
.PP
This tool calls
.B "chkentry \-S"
to perform important validation checks.
.PP
While of this tool does not guarantee that your submission will win the IOCCC,
submitting something that fails to pass the important validation checks
.B will guarantee
that your submission will be
.BR rejected .
.PP
If the
tool is not installed in the default location,
and/or that tool is not found, the path to may be specified
via the
.B \-C\  chkentry
option.
.PP
Unlike
.BR chkentry (1),
this tool is meant to be used by contestants submitting to the IOCCC.
This tool is also is directly invoked by the
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
tool.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def: 0).
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-C\  chkentry
Set the path of the
.BR chkentry (1)
tool to
.BR chkentry .
.TP
.B \-q
Set quiet mode.
Silences msg(), warn(), warnp() if verbosity level is 0.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
.B chkentry
exited 1 due to some submission directory check failure
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error
.TQ
>=10
internal error
.SH BUGS
.PP
While the humans maintaining this code use a test suite to validate this code,
and no so-called AI tool contributed to this tool's codebase,
this tool's test suite was written by humans with the best of intentions. :)
.PP
If you have an issue with the tool you can open an issue at:
.sp
.RS 4
.ft B
https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues
.ft R
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run the tool on an IOCCC submission located in the directory
.IR ./test_ioccc/workdir/test\-1 :
.sp
.RS 4
.ft B
chksubmit ./test_ioccc/workdir/test\-1
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR mkiocccentry (1),
.BR chkentry (1)
