.\" section 1 man page for iocccsize
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH iocccsize 1 "02 March 2024" "iocccsize" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B iocccsize
\- IOCCC Source Size Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iocccsize
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-i \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.I prog.c
.br
.B iocccsize
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-i \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
<
.I prog.c
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Reading a C source file from standard input or a file arg, apply the IOCCC source size rules as explained in the Guidelines.
.PP
The source's Rule 2b length is written to stdout; with
.B \-v
option the Rule 2b length, gross (Rule 2a) length, and matched keyword count are written to stdout.
.PP
The size tool counts most C reserved words (keyword, secondary, and selected preprocessor keywords) as 1.
The size tool counts all other octets as 1 excluding ASCII whitespace, and excluding any \(aq;\(aq, \(aq{\(aq or \(aq}\(aq followed by ASCII whitespace, and excluding any \(aq;\(aq, \(aq{\(aq or \(aq}\(aq octet immediately before the end of file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignored for backward compatibility.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set debugging level to
.IR level .
0, the default, implies no debugging.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.
Silence msg(), warn(), warnp() if verbosity level is 0.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version and exit.
.SH IOCCC WARNING
.PP
For submitting entries to the IOCCC, and to conform with Rule 2,
please use the official copy of the IOCCC
.B iocccsize
from the following GitHub repo:
.br
.IR <https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry> .
.PP
.B WARNING:
be sure you are using the current version of
.B iocccsize
as this tool may change from time to time.
Failure to do so may result in your IOCCC submission being rejected!
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
source code is within Rule 2a and Rule 2b limits
.TQ
1
source code larger than Rule 2a and/or Rule 2b limits
.TQ
2
.B \-h
used and help printed
.TQ
3
.B \-V
used and version printed
.TQ
4
invalid command line
.TQ
6
there is no Rule 6!
.SH BUGS
.PP
There are no bugs, only features! :\-)
.PP
The matched keyword count is currently ignored by the IOCCC.
.PP
Because the original source was an IOCCC winning entry,
"You are not expected to understand this" applies to somewhat improved source code. :\-)
.PP
But if you think you have an issue with the tool you can open an issue at
.br
.IR <https://github.com/ioccc\-src/iocccsize/issues\> .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Test if prog.c fits within Rule 2b and Rule 2b limits, reporting if there's a problem.
Output the Rule 2b value for prog.c:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./iocccsize < prog.c
 ./iocccsize prog.c
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Test if prog.c fits within Rule 2b and Rule 2b limits, reporting if there's a problem.
Output the Rule 2b length, gross (Rule 2a) length, and matched keyword count:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./iocccsize \-v 1 < prog.c
 ./iocccsize \-v 1 prog.c
.ft R
.RE
.PP
You may also wish to try the test script in verbose mode:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./iocccsize_test.sh \-v 3
.ft R
.RE
.SH HISTORY
The
.B iocccsize
tool was created by Anthony Howe in 1992.
This tool was first referenced by IOCCC Rule 2 in 2013.
.PP
This tool is based on Anthony Howe's
.B iocccsize
GitHub repo:
.br
.IR <https://github.com/SirWumpus/iocccsize> .
.PP
The IOCCC judges appreciate Anthony Howe for allowing the IOCCC
to use a modified copy of his code.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iocccsize_test (8)
