.\" section 1 man page for mkiocccentry
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH mkiocccentry 1 "10 March 2025" "mkiocccentry" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B mkiocccentry
\- make an IOCCC compressed tarball for an IOCCC entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkiocccentry
.RB [\| options \|]
.I workdir
.I topdir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkiocccentry
creates a tarball suitable to be submitted to the IOCCC, based on the rules and guidelines (mentioned in the
.B NOTES
section below).
The
.I topdir
is the directory where the files (and if desired directories) to be added to the submission tarball, including the mandatory
.BR prog.c ,
.BR Makefile
and
.BR remarks.md
are.
The
.I workdir
is a directory where your submission directory (named based on the contestant ID and submission slot) will be created.
The files (and if necessary) directories will be copied to this submission directory and many checks will be done; some failed checks you may override but others are fatal errors.
.PP
If the mandatory files do not exist or are not regular readable files in the
.I topdir
it is an error.
If
.B remarks.md
is empty (i.e. size 0) it is an error.
If
.B Makefile
is empty (i.e. size 0) it is an error.
.PP
This tool uses the code from
.BR iocccsize (1)
on your
.B prog.c
file.
The
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
tool verifies that the
.B Makefile
is not of size 0 and runs a number of checks on it, in particular looking for specific rules (and insisting that the
.B all
rule is first); if the size is 0 it is an error but you may override the other warnings with the risk of violating the rules.
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
also verifies that the
.B remarks.md
file is not of size 0; if it is it is an error.
.PP
Assuming the mandatory files are found, you will be presented with lists of directories/files/symlinks that will be ignored as well as directories and files to be made and copied over, giving you the chance to confirm that everything is in order.
Assuming it is, any directories required will be made in the submission directory.
Once this is done the files will be copied to their correct directories.
You will then be given a chance to verify that everything is okay.
.PP
Assuming it is you will be asked information about your submission and the author(s).
Once this is done and you have confirmed the author details are correct,
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
will create the mandatory
.BR .info.json
and
.BR chkentry (1)
will be executed on it.
Assuming all is okay the mandatory
.BR .auth.json
file will be created and
.BR chkentry (1)
will be run on it.
If everything goes okay you will be presented with a directory listing of the submission directory again and asked to confirm everything is well.
If it is the submission tarball will be formed and then
.BR txzchk (1)
(which in turn runs
.BR fnamchk (1)
on the tarball) will be run on it.
.PP
There are many rules and checks done in the above process that you may find in more detail at:
\<https://www.ioccc.org/faq.html#mkiocccentry_process\>.
.PP
Because some might want or need to update an entry there is functionality to write your answers to a file so that you can feed the program the answers quickly; see below.
Because some might want some files or directories in their topdir that they don't want to submit but would normally be included in the tarball by
.BR mkiocccentry (1),
the
option
.BI \-I\  path
was added to ignore a path.
This option can be used more than once and the
.I path
is the path under the topdir (in other words, if the topdir has a file called
.BR foo ,
you would use
.BI \-I\  foo
instead of
.BI \-I\  topdir/foo\c
\&).
See the
.B EXAMPLES
section below for an example.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.IR level .
.TP
.B \-J\  level
Set verbosity level for the internal JSON library (\c
.BR jparse (3)).
The default JSON verbosity level is 0, which produces no JSON debug messages.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode (def: loud :\-) ).
This will also silence the functions
.BR msg (3),
.BR warn (3)
and
.BR warnp (3)
if verbosity level is 0 (i.e. if
.BI \-v\  0
was used or if
.B \-v
was not used at all).
.TP
.B \-V
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-W
Ignore all warnings.
When this option is specified the program warns you that you've ignored all warnings (therefore not ignoring all warnings :) ), informing you that the judges will not ignore all warnings.
Use with
.B EXTREME CAUTION
as ignoring warnings may produce a submission that violates the IOCCC rules
and/or conflicts with the IOCCC guidelines.
.br
See:
.ft B
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/index.html\>
.ft R
for information on the IOCCC rules and guidelines.
.TP
.B \-E
Exit 1 after the first warning.
This option conflicts with the
.B \-W
option.
.TP
.B \-y
Answer yes to most questions.
Use with
.B EXTREME CAUTION
as answering yes to everything may produce a submission that violates the IOCCC rules
and/or conflicts with the IOCCC guidelines.
.br
See:
.ft B
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/index.html\>
.ft R
for information on the IOCCC rules and guidelines.
.TP
.B \-Y
Force answer yes to questions even when you would otherwise be prompted.
This is mostly for the test-suite and in particular for the reading of answers from a file.
That is because when scanning the topdir and making directories and copying files from the topdir to the submission directory and checking that the directory ended up okay, we do prompt the user again.
.TP
.BI \-t\  tar
Set path to
.B tar
that accepts the
.B \-J
option to
.IR tar .
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/bin/tar
and
.I /bin/tar
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-l\  ls
Set
.B ls
path to
.IR ls .
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/bin/ls
and
.I /bin/ls
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-T\  txzchk
Set
.B txzchk
path to
.IR txzchk .
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/local/bin/txzchk
and
.I ./txzchk
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.B \-e
Pass
.B \-e
to
.BR txzchk (1)
(entertainment mode).
.TP
.BI \-f\  feathers
Pass
.BI \-f\  feathers
to
.BR txzchk (1)
(used by
.BR \-e ).
.TP
.BI \-F\  fnamchk
Set
.B fnamchk
path to
.IR fnamchk .
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/local/bin/fnamchk
and
.I ./test_ioccc/fnamchk
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-C\  chkentry
Set
.B chkentry
path to
.I chkentry.
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/local/bin/chkentry
and
.I ./chkentry
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-m\  make
Set
.B make
path to
.I make.
.B mkiocccentry
checks
.I /usr/bin/make
and
.I /bin/make
if this option is not specified.
.TP
.BI \-a\  answers
.B mkiocccentry
will write to the file specified in
.I answers
to make it easier to update your entry (via the
.B \-i
option).
If the file exists
.B mkiocccentry
will ask you if you wish to overwrite it unless
.B \-A
is specified which will always overwrite the answers file.
.TP
.BI \-A\  answers
Always overwrite answers file
.IR answers \|.
.TP
.BI \-i\  answers
Read the answers from the file
.I answers
to make it easier for you to update your entry.
This option cannot be used with
.B \-a
or
.B \-A\
\&.
This option implies
.B \-y
and disables some messages as well.
However you will still be prompted to verify files and directories are okay.
.TP
.BI \-u\  uuidfile
Read UUID from a text file.
If this file cannot be read or does not have a valid UUID by itself,
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
will prompt you as usual.
This option cannot be used with
.BI \-U\  UUID
or
.BI \-s\  seed
or
.BI \-i\  answers
or
.BR \-d .
.TP
.BI \-U\  UUID
Set UUID to
.IR UUID .
If this an invalid UUID
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
will prompt you as usual.
This option cannot be used with
.BI \-u\  uuidfile
or
.BI \-s\  seed
or
.BI \-i\  answers
or
.BR \-d .
.TP
.BI \-s\  seed
Generate pseudo-random answers to the questions
for testing an dry-run purposes.
The pseudo-random answers are written to
the file
.IR random_answers. seed
and then processed as if
.BI \-i\  random_answers.seed
had been used.
This mode is intended as a
.B dry run
only, allowing a submitter to quickly check if there are
any issues with the files they intend to submit.
The result is for
.B TEST PURPOSES ONLY
as the result is
.B NOT SUITABLE
for submitting to an open IOCCC.
.sp
The pseudo-random answers are generated via
calls to
.BR random (3),
generating strings of pseudo-random lengths and values that conform to input requirements.
The
.I seed
is supplied to
.BR srandom (3)
with an offset by a constant and 31-bit mask.
The
.I seed
must be an non-negative integer.
Useful values of
.I seed
are integers between 0 and 2147483647 inclusive.
.br
The use of
.BI \-s\  seed
implies the use of
.B \-y
and
.BR \-E .
.TP
.B \-d
Alias for
.BR \-s\  21701.
.TP
.BI \-I\  path
Ignores a path from in the
.BR topdir .
This option can be specified multiple times.
If used
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
will present you with a list of ignored paths to confirm everything is OK, unless you have used the
.B \-i
option.
If the path is a directory
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
will not traverse it.
.TP
.BI \-r\  rm
Set path to
.BR rm (1)
if
.B \-x
used.
.TP
.B \-x
Force delete submission directory if it already exists.
Use with
.BR CARE !
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
The \-E option as used and some warning was issued
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
invalid command line, invalid option or option missing an argument
.TQ
4
something went wrong in scanning, copying or verifying
.I topdir
and
.I workdir
.TQ
5
user says something about the
.I topdir
or
.I workdir
is not okay
.TQ
>= 10
internal error
.SH NOTES
.PP
The rules can be found at:
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/rules.html\>.
.br
The guidelines can be found at:
\<https://www.ioccc.org/next/guidelines.html\>.
.SH BUGS
.PP
More than 0 humans work on it! :)
.PP
Make sure you're using the most recent version of all tools.
This is important because if a tool is out of date you risk breaking the rules.
Furthermore, if you use this tool outside the repo directory (providing a path to it), make certain to provide the program the options so that it can locate the correct version of the other tools as otherwise you will likely run into problems.
For instance, if you have not installed the tools it would not be able to locate the tools.
But even if you did install them if you have not installed the latest version it could be that a tool fails.
Or if a tool does not fail it might be that you submit a tarball with a wrong version and your submission would be rejected for violating rule 17.
.PP
The IOCCC uses the term
.B entry
to refer to a submission that won the IOCCC whereas the term
.B submission
is used to refer to something given to the IOCCC judges for consideration when the IOCCC is open.
If the IOCCC was being consistent, then
.BR chkentry (1)
and the
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
tools would not have "entry" in their names.
On the other hand, if the names of those tools were named in a consistent fashion, they would have been named
.B chksubmission
and
.B mkiocccsubmission
respectively, which is a bit too long for a tool name, and it would have ruined the
.B mkiocccentry
pun.
The IOCCC decided to
.B NOT rename the tools
in the name of
.BR fputs (3)
backward compatibility. :)
.PP
As a compromise, the name of the compressed tarball produced by
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
was changed to start with
.I submit
instead of
.IR entry .
The
.BR fnamchk (1)
tool was by necessity changed accordingly.
.PP
Astute proofreaders might find circumstances where variables, comments, error messages and prompt strings use
.B entry
instead of
.BR submission .
You are welcome to submit pull requests to
.I https://github.com/ioccc-src/mkiocccentry/pulls
to correct such oversights in variables,
comments, error messages and prompt strings.
Note, however, that there are many cases where the words
.B entry
and
.B entries
are actually correct: they would only be incorrect if they refer to an IOCCC submission that has not won.
In other words if it refers to submissions won then it should be
.B entry
or
.BR entries .
.PP
If you have an issue with the tool you can open an issue at
.IR https://github.com/ioccc\-src/mkiocccentry/issues
as a bug report or feature request.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run test script from the repo directory:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./mkiocccentry_test.sh
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Make
.I workdir
and then make a submission tarball from the files
.IR prog.c ,
.I Makefile
and
.IR remarks.md 
in topdir, saving your answers to the file
.I answers
for future updates:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 mkdir workdir
 mkiocccentry \-a answers workdir topdir
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Use the answers file from the previous invocation to quickly update the entry, allowing you to have a change in files (contents or number of files):
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 mkiocccentry \-i answers workdir topdir
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Run program, specifying alternative path to
.B tar
and
.BR txzchk :
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 mkiocccentry \-t /path/to/tar \-T /path/to/txzchk workdir topdir
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Assuming your topdir has the directories
.BR little ,
.BR little/bunny ,
.BR little/bunny/foo ,
.BR little/bunny/foo/foo ,
.BR little/ham
and the files
.BR little/bunny/foo/foo/mouse ,
.B little/ham/spam
and your required files
.BR prog.c ,
.B Makefile
and
.BR remarks.md ,
ignore directory
.BR little/bunny/foo/foo :
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 mkiocccentry -I little/bunny/foo/foo workdir topdir
.ft R
.RE
.PP
Alternatively you could do:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 mkiocccentry -I little/bunny/foo workdir topdir
.ft R
.RE
because ignoring the path
.B little/bunny/foo
makes
.BR mkiocccentry (1)
not traverse it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iocccsize (1),
.BR chkentry (1),
.BR txzchk (1),
.BR fnamchk (1)
