.\" section 3 man page for warn
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022. The man page is dedicated to Grace Hopper who popularised the
.\" term 'debugging' after a real moth in a mainframe was causing it to
.\" malfunction (the term had already existed but she made it popular
.\" because of actually removing an insect that was causing a malfunction).
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH warn 3 "28 September 2025" "warn"
.SH NAME
.BR warn() \|,
.BR vwarn() \|,
.BR fwarn() \|,
.BR vfwarn() \|,
.BR snwarn() \|,
.BR vsnwarn() \|,
.BR warnp() \|,
.BR vwarnp() \|,
.BR fwarnp() \|,
.BR vfwarnp() \|,
.BR snwarnp() \|,
.BR vsnwarnp()
\- warning message facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <dbg.h>\fP
.sp
\fB#define DBG_VERSION "..."                   /* format: major.minor YYYY-MM-DD */\fP
.br
\fBextern const char *const dbg_version;       /* library version format: major.minor YYYY-MM-DD */\fP
.sp
.B "extern int verbosity_level;                 /* maximum debug level for debug messages */"
.br
.B "extern bool warn_output_allowed;            /* false ==> disable warning messages */"
.br
.B "extern bool msg_warn_silent;                /* true ==> silence info & warnings if verbosity_level <= 0 */"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "warn(const char *name, const char *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vwarn(char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "fwarn(FILE *stream, const char *name, const char *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vfwarn(FILE *stream, char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "snwarn(char *str, size_t size, char const *name, char const *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vsnwarn(char *str, size_t size, char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "warnp(const char *name, const char *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vwarnp(char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "fwarnp(FILE *stream, const char *name, const char *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vfwarnp(FILE *stream, char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "snwarnp(char *str, size_t size, char const *name, char const *fmt, ...);"
.sp
.I void
.br
.B "vsnwarnp(char *str, size_t size, char const *name, char const *fmt, va_list ap);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a way to write warning messages to a stream such as
.B stderr
or to a
.B char *
of a fixed size.
.SS Errno versions
.PP
The functions
.BR warnp() ,
.BR fwarnp() ,
.B vfwarnp()
and
.B vsnwarnp()
write a message according to the value of
.BR errno ,
 making sure to restore the
.B errno
value in the case the function returns.
.SS Alternative output FILE * stream
The functions that do not take a
.B FILE *
or a
.B char *
write to
.BR stderr .
The functions
.BR fwarn() \|,
.BR vfwarn() \|,
.BR fwarnp()
and
.BR vfwarnp()
can write to an alternative
.B FILE *
stream.
.SS Writing to a char * buffer
The functions
.BR snwarn()
and
.BR snwarnp()
write a message to a buffer of a fixed size.
They do not write a newline after the message but the string is NUL terminated.
They do not do anything if passed a NULL pointer or
.I size
<= 1.
.SS Variadic versions
.PP
The functions
.BR vwarn() \|,
.BR vfwarn() \|,
.BR vsnwarn() \|,
.BR vwarnp() \|,
.BR vfwarnp()
and
.BR vsnwarnp()
are equivalent to the functions
.BR warn() \|,
.BR fwarn() \|,
.BR snwarn() \|,
.BR warnp() \|,
.B fwarnp()
and
.B snwarnp()
except that they are called with a
.I va_list
instead of a variable number of arguments.
The state of the
.I va_list
is not modified by these functions.
.SS Format of the fmt string
The format string is a character string in the same form as
.BR printf (3).
As these are quite complex please refer to the
.BR printf (3)
man page for more details and examples.
.SS Output control
.PP
When
.I warn_output_allowed
is false these functions will not print anything.
.sp
When
.I msg_warn_silent
is true these functions will be silenced if
.I verbosity_level
<= 0.
.SS Version string
The string
.BR dbg_version ,
which points to
.BR DBG_VERSION ,
is the current version of the
.B dbg
library.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
These functions return void.
.SH NOTES
.SS Variadic arguments
In the
.I va_list
functions, the argument
.I ap
is not checked for consistency like they are using the primary interfaces.
For this reason these versions are not recommended for use.
.SS In case of NULL name
If
.I name
is NULL it will be set to
.BR "((NULL name))"
and the following warning, preceded by a newline, will be issued:
.sp
.BI "Warning: foo: name is NULL, forcing name to be: ((NULL name))"
.sp
where
.B foo
is the name of the function.
.SS The fmt argument
The
.I fmt
argument in the functions is a
.BR printf (3)
style format.
If the format requires arguments, then such arguments may be given after the
.IR fmt .
For modern C compilers, the agreement between any % directives in
.IR fmt ,
and any arguments that may follow is checked by the format attribute facility.
Thus having too many arguments, too few arguments, or arguments of the wrong type will result in compiler warnings.
.SS In case of NULL fmt
If
.I fmt
is NULL it will be set to
.BR "((NULL fmt))"
and the following warning, preceded by a newline, will be issued:
.sp
.BI "Warning: foo: fmt is NULL, forcing fmt to be: ((NULL fmt))"
.sp
where
.B foo
is the name of the function.
.sp
When the
.I fmt
is NULL or contains no
.B %
specifiers the arguments following
.I fmt
will be ignored.
.SS Error checking
All writes are checked for errors.
Write error messages are written to stderr.
However, a persistent problem writing to the stream (such as if the stream being written to was previously closed) will likely prevent such an error from being seen.
.SS Newlines
All functions output extra newlines to help let the messages stand out better.
.SH EXAMPLE
For an example proper please refer to
.BR dbg (3).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbg (3),
.BR msg (3),
.BR printf_usage (3),
.BR werr (3),
.BR err (3),
.BR warn_or_err (3),
.BR printf (3)
.SH HISTORY
The dbg facility was first written by Landon Curt Noll in 1989.
Version 2.0 was developed and tested within the IOCCC mkiocccentry GitHub repo.
