.\" section 8 man page for reset_tstamp.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH reset_tstamp.sh 8 "29 January 2023" "reset_tstamp.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B reset_tstamp.sh
\- reset the minimum timestamp
.B MIN_TIMESTAMP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reset_tstamp.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR limit_ioccc.h \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reset_tstamp.sh
will reset the minimum timestamp allowed for entries to the contest.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def 0).
.TP
.BI \-l\  limit.sh
Set limit file to
.I limit.sh\c
\&.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
timestamp was successfully updated
.TQ
1
a verification phase failed
.TQ
2
.B \-h
and help string printed or
.B \-V
and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line usage error.
.TQ
4
limit filename empty
.TQ
5
limit file not found or not readable and/or not writable
.TQ
6
missing rpl or gdate
.TQ
7
.B rpl(1)
failed to modify the
.I limit_ioccc.h
file
.SH NOTES
.PP
Only run this script when you wish to invalidate ALL timestamps prior to now, such as when you make a fundamental change to a critical JSON format or make a fundamental change to the compressed tarball file structure or make a critical change to limit_ioccc.h that is MORE restrictive.
.PP
.B DO NOT
run this script simply for a new IOCCC!
.PP
Yes, we make it very hard to run this script for good reason.
Only IOCCC judges can perform ALL the steps needed to complete this action.
