.\" section 8 man page for run_usage.sh
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH run_usage.sh 8 "29 January 2023" "run_usage.sh" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B run_usage.sh
\- run
.B \-h
on a tool to extract usage information to help with checking man page
.B SYNOPSIS
\- tool usage consistency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run_usage.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR section \|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR man_file \|]
.RB [\| \-D
.IR man_dir \|]
.I tool
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This script does a best guess at what the
.B SYNOPSIS
should be for the supplied tool with certain limitations (see both
.B NOTES
and
.BR BUGS ).
If the man page exists it attempts to, based on the
.B \-h
option of the tool, create the correct regexp for the
.B SYNOPSIS
and then uses
.B grep
to check for it in the man page.
.PP
If the man page does not exist or is not a regular file or is not readable it is an error but a helpful note is given of what the
.B SYNOPSIS
might look like (again, see
.B NOTES
and
.BR BUGS ).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-m\  section
Specify a different man page section (def: 1).
.TP
.BI \-M\  man_file
Specify the man page filename.
Useful when the name of the tool does not match what the man page should be (for example
.B run_usage.sh
has
.I run_usage.8
and not
.I run_usage.sh.8
though perhaps this should be fixed.
.TP
.BI \-D\  man_dir
Specify directory where man pages are to be found.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all okay
.TQ
1
help or version string printed
.TQ
2
tool missing or command used missing
.TQ
3
man page missing
.TQ
4
command line usage error
.TQ
5
missing or inconsistent synopsis
.TQ
6
tool does not have usage string
.TQ
7
man directory does not exist or is not a readable directory
.SH NOTES
.PP
It has a
.B very fixed
idea of what formatting is correct.
As this can vary we don't try figuring it out.
At one point the formatting of the
.B SYNOPSIS
matched the man pages in this repo which allowed for initial checking.
In particular the tool was even used to generate the first versions of the
.B SYNOPSIS
of this man page.
This does not mean it's not useful; it's just not going to get you the right formatting: instead it can be used to at least (in many cases) get the synopsis text there, leaving you to do the rest.
.PP
If there's more than one usage string then the script only can detect the number of usage strings matched in the man page.
In particular if at least one of the lines matches and there are the correct number of usages it will not report a problem because it checks for the number of matches via
.B grep \-c
and since it has a correct match it assumes that it's correct.
This is a necessary hack because not all greps allow for line crossing and even if they did it could be broken by the order in the file (or tool).
To fix this would complicate the script more and it's not worth it because we still will visually inspect the man pages.
.PP
In the case there's a mismatch all usages will be shown to the user.
This is not really a bug but it's worth pointing out because seeing two lines does not mean that both need to be added.
Also as noted it could be that the output is not even correct; it's expected that when editing the man page one is also visually inspecting (including running man on it) everything but as long as everything stays the way it is now it should work.
.SS Deprecation Warning
This tool is deprecated but not entirely obsolete.
Although it will always report invalid formatting for the SYNOPSIS now, it can be used as a starting point so one can then add the appropriate formatting.
But as it sometimes did not get everything correct anyway (more than one usage for example) this is not so much a problem.
Again this is a quick, dirty and ugly hack that is far from perfect!
.SH BUGS
.PP
It's not perfect. In particular:
.PP
It's not perfect.
See above line and above
.B NOTES
if this is not clear!
.PP
It requires a
.B \-h
option for the tool in question and that this option will prefix each syntax with
.BR usage: .
.PP
It does not have a quiet mode so that it only prints out what the format might be for
.BR SYNOPSIS .
It does however not print anything if everything seems okay.
This is a feature not a bug.
.PP
There are other limitations as well!
It's not meant to be perfect and it's not meant to replace the need for editing the man page manually.
It can help determine that everything is correct assuming the usage string in the tool is correct (prefixed with
.BR usage: )
and there's no silliness in the man page like the same usage more than once.
Unfortunately changing the script so that it checks for each usage individually is not worth the effort especially as we now use formatting macros.
.PP
See also the
.BR NOTES .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Determine if the
.B SYNOPSIS in this file is correct (according to the script) based on the usage message of
.B run_usage.sh:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./run_usage.sh \-M run_usage.8 run_usage.sh
.ft R
.RE
