.\" section 8 man page for vermod
.\"
.\" This man page was first written by Cody Boone Ferguson for the IOCCC
.\" in 2022.
.\"
.\" Humour impairment is not virtue nor is it a vice, it's just plain
.\" wrong: almost as wrong as JSON spec mis-features and C++ obfuscation! :-)
.\"
.\" "Share and Enjoy!"
.\"     --  Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints Division, JSON spec department. :-)
.\"
.TH vermod 8 "05 February 2023" "vermod" "IOCCC tools"
.SH NAME
.B vermod
\- modify version strings (and others) under ./test_JSON/
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vermod.sh
.RB [\| \-h \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR level \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR test_dir \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR limit.sh \|]
.RB [\| \-o \| ]
.RB [\| \-F \|]
.RB [\| \-Q \|]
.RB [\| \-n \|]
.RB [\| \-l \|]
.RB [\| \-L \|]
.I old_ver
.I new_ver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vermod.sh
uses
.BR rpl (1)
to update strings from an old value to a new value under ./test_JSON (by default).
This is needed for when a version of a tool changes so that the test suite does not fail.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-v\  level
Set verbosity level to
.I level
(def: 0).
.TP
.BI \-d\  test_dir
Set the directory where the \(aq*.json\(aq files are expected to
.IR test_dir .
.TP
.BI \-i\   limit.sh
Set limit.sh file to verify version.
.TP
.B \-o
Verify old version instead of the new version (def: verify new).
.TP
.B \-F
Force change even if verification fails (def: reject unverified changes).
.TP
.B \-Q
Do not double quote strings (def: double quote strings).
.TP
.B \-n
No op: change no files.
.TP
.B \-l
List files that change or would be changed.
This is useful with
.B \-n
to show what would change.
.TP
.B \-L
List files that do not change or would not be changed.
This is useful with
.B \-n
to show what wouldn't change.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
all OK
.TQ
1
.B rpl
exited non\-zero
.TQ
2
\-h and help string printed or \-V and version string printed
.TQ
3
command line error and usage message printed
.TQ
4
no test directory found or is not readable
.TQ
5
.B rpl
command not found
.TQ
6
no limit.sh found or is not readable
.TQ
7
no *.json files found under test directory
.TQ
8
new_ver (or old_ver if \-o) not found in limit file
.SH FILES
.I test_JSON
.RS
Default directory of good and bad subdirectories each respectively with good and bad JSON files.
.RE
.SH NOTES
.PP
This script is only needed when a version of a tool is changed by a developer of the repo.
.PP
The tool
.BR sed (1)
and various others could also be used to do this but this script is generally preferred because it can verify that the version change is actually correct.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
After changing the version of
.B txzchk
to
.I 0.12 2022\-09\-2
from
.I 0.11 2022\-08\-23
show what files would change:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./vermod.sh \-l \-n \(aq0.11 2022\-08\-23\(aq \(aq0.12 2022\-09\-22\(aq
.ft R
.RE
.PP
After verifying that the above command is correct, run the script again to actually make the changes:
.sp
.RS
.ft B
 ./vermod.sh  \(aq0.11 2022\-08\-23\(aq \(aq0.12 2022\-09\-22\(aq
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpl (1)
